docs/avstudio-editor/3-user-interface/3-2-user-profile-dashboard/3-2-user-profile-dashboard.md, before:

---
title: User Profile Dashboard Overview
sidebar_label: User Profile
sidebar_position: 2
order: 2
tags:
  - avstudio
  - profile
  - account
  - password
---

# User Profile Dashboard Overview

From the AVstudio main dashboard, clicking the profile icon in the upper-right corner gives you access to account-related actions like managing your profile or switching accounts. This page covers what you’ll see and do in the User Profile Dashboard.

![User Profile Overview](./img/3-2-user-profile-dashboard.png)

## ① Email Address

At the top of the page, you'll see the email address associated with your account. This confirms which account is currently active.

## ② Profile Data

The main body of the page includes all your user details:

- **Email address**  
- **Account status** – e.g., Confirmed or Active  
- **Password** – with an option to change it  
- **First Name** and **Last Name** – editable fields  
- **Company** – optional organization name

This area allows you to manage basic profile information as needed.

## ③ Change Password

Clicking the `Change password` button opens a popup window where you can securely update your login credentials.

![Change Password Modal](./img/3-2-change-password-modal.png)

👉 Inside the popup:
- Enter your `Current Password`
- Type your `New Password`
- `Repeat New Password` for confirmation
- Click `Change Password` to apply or `Cancel` to close without saving

## ④ Back to Projects

This button takes you back to the Main Dashboard, where you can access all of your saved projects.

## ⑤ Logout

Clicking `Logout` will end your current session and return you to the login page.

---

This dashboard keeps everything account-related in one place — whether you're reviewing your email, changing your password, or updating your name and company.

Commit message:

Refine 3-2 User Profile Dashboard: add instructional intro, summary, and clarify structure

docs/avstudio-editor/3-user-interface/3-2-user-profile-dashboard/3-2-user-profile-dashboard.md, after:

---
title: User Profile Dashboard Overview
sidebar_label: User Profile
sidebar_position: 2
order: 2
tags:
  - avstudio
  - profile
  - account
  - password
---

# User Profile Dashboard Overview

Learn how to manage your AVstudio user profile, update account information, and change your password from the User Profile Dashboard.

The User Profile Dashboard provides access to all account-related actions, including editing your personal information, updating your password, and managing your organization details. This guide explains each feature so you can keep your account secure and up to date.

![User Profile Overview](./img/3-2-user-profile-dashboard.png)

## ① Email Address

At the top of the page, you'll see the email address associated with your account. This confirms which account is currently active.

## ② Profile Data

The main body of the page includes all your user details:

- **Email address**  
- **Account status** – e.g., Confirmed or Active  
- **Password** – with an option to change it  
- **First Name** and **Last Name** – editable fields  
- **Company** – optional organization name

This area allows you to manage basic profile information as needed.

## ③ Change Password

Clicking the `Change password` button opens a popup window where you can securely update your login credentials.

![Change Password Modal](./img/3-2-change-password-modal.png)

👉 Inside the popup:
- Enter your `Current Password`
- Type your `New Password`
- `Repeat New Password` for confirmation
- Click `Change Password` to apply or `Cancel` to close without saving

## ④ Back to Projects

This button takes you back to the Main Dashboard, where you can access all of your saved projects.

## ⑤ Logout

Clicking `Logout` will end your current session and return you to the login page.

---

This dashboard keeps everything account-related in one place — whether you're reviewing your email, changing your password, or updating your name and company.

## Summary

The User Profile Dashboard centralizes all account management tasks in AVstudio. By understanding how to update your profile, change your password, and access account settings, you can maintain a secure and up-to-date user experience. Refer to this guide whenever you need to manage your AVstudio account details.
