docs/documentation/4-working-with-projects/4-2-setting-up-project-settings/4-2-setting-up-project-settings.md, before:

---
title: Setting Up Project Settings
sidebar_label: Setting Up a Project
sidebar_position: 2
order: 2
tags:
  - avstudio
  - project-settings
  - environment
  - connectors
  - debug-console
---

# Setting Up Project Settings

After creating your project, the next step is to configure the settings that define how it behaves, builds, and connects. This guide walks you through how to open the project settings panel and configure key fields like environment setup, debug mode, signal IDs, connectors, and dataset access.


## 1. Open the Project Dashboard

You can access the dashboard in two ways:

a. In the `My Projects` panel, click the name of the project you want to configure  
b. Or, from the preview card, click the `Edit` button next to the project

![Open project dashboard](./img/open-project-dashboard.png)

Both actions will take you to the `Project Dashboard`.

## 2. Access the Project Settings Panel

a. In the dashboard, click the `Settings` button (three-line icon)  
b. Select `Project Settings` from the dropdown menu

![Access project settings menu](./img/open-project-settings.png)

This will open the full `Project Settings` panel.

## 3. Configure General Project Information

Update the following fields:

a. `Project Name`: Set a clear and recognizable name. *Example: `Smart Home UI - Beta`*

b. `Project Theme`: Select a theme from the dropdown. *Example: `Dark Huddle`, `Light Minimal`*

c. `Splash screen Logo image ID`: Paste the image ID from your media library. *Example: `logo_78e1`*

d. `Splash screen Text`: Enter a welcome message. *Example: `Welcome to LuxeControl`*

![Edit general project information](./img/project-general-info.png)

:::tip Note
These fields affect branding and the visual appearance during loading screens.
:::

## 4. Set Up Environments

To define multiple deployment environments (such as development, onsite, iPad view):

a. Click the `+` button to create a new environment tab  
b. In the `Environment name` field, enter a label (e.g., `QA`, `Tablet`, or `Internal`)  
c. Toggle `Enable debug console` if needed for testing  
d. Set the `Build Archive Name` — this defines the filename for exported builds.  *Example: `myApp_test_build`*

![Environment settings](./img/environment-settings.png)

:::tip Note
Use environments to separate internal testing setups from production builds.
:::

## 5. Configure Crestron Connectors

If your project integrates with Crestron systems or similar controllers, you can assign signal IDs that allow AVstudio to interact with external commands, navigate between pages, and trigger data updates.

a. `Analog flip page signal` – Accepts a numeric input to switch between different pages.  
   *Use this when your control processor sends analog values representing specific page indexes.*  
   *Example: `analog_01`*

b. `Serial flip page signal` – Accepts string values that represent page names or routes.  
   *Use this when your control system uses serial strings (e.g. `"home"`, `"settings"`) to flip pages.*  
   *Example: `serial_page_name`*

c. `Notification signal` – Displays real-time alerts or status messages in the UI.  
   *Bind this to a serial signal that provides messages from your control system, like `"Network Error"` or `"System Ready"`.*  
   *Example: `serial_alert_msg`*

d. `Refresh All DataSources` – Triggers a manual refresh for all bound data sources.  
   *Connect this to a digital signal that forces a full data reload when toggled ON (value 1).*  
   *Example: `digital_refresh`*

e. `Connected status indicator` – Indicates whether the system is connected or offline.  
   *Use this digital signal to show an online/offline status icon in your interface.*  
   *Example: `digital_online_state`*

![Crestron connectors](./img/crestron-connectors.png)

## 6. Add Web Connectors

If your project needs to communicate with a web API or external data service, you can add a web connector. These are typically used for retrieving dynamic content, triggering API requests, or syncing with third-party systems like building management tools, calendar services, or dashboards.

a. Scroll to the `WEB connectors` section in the Project Settings panel.

b. Click the `Add Web Connector` button to begin creating a new integration.

c. In the connector setup modal (not shown here), enter configuration details such as endpoint URL, request type (e.g. GET or POST), and headers or payloads if required.  
   *Example: You could connect to `https://api.weather.com/current?location=XYZ` to pull in real-time temperature data for a dashboard display.*

![Web connectors](./img/web-connectors.png)

:::tip Note
Web connectors allow your AVstudio project to talk to third-party platforms—ideal for syncing data, controlling devices, or showing external content in real time.
:::

---

## 7. Define Dataset Options

Dataset options allow AVstudio to connect securely to external datasets that power dynamic content in your interface. These settings are especially useful when using APIs that require authentication or custom headers.

a. In the `Dataset base URL` field, enter the base address of the API or database.  
   *Example: `https://api.smartbuilding.io/v1` — this might be the root of a facilities management system or custom backend.*

b. In the `Authorization header key`, enter the name of the HTTP header used for access tokens or API keys.  
   *Example: `Authorization` or `x-api-key` depending on the service.*

c. In the `Authorization header value`, paste the actual token or key value used to authenticate requests.  
   *Example: `Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5...` — this would be issued by your backend or identity provider.*

![Dataset options](./img/dataset-options.png)

---

## 8. Save Your Changes

Always remember to save your work after editing project settings. If you leave the page without saving, your configuration changes will be lost.

a. Click the `Save Project Settings` button in the top-right corner of the settings panel.

![Save project settings](./img/save-project-settings.png)

This saves all updates made across general settings, environments, connectors, and dataset fields.

---

## Summary

This guide covered how to:

- Open the project dashboard
- Access the settings panel
- Edit branding and splash screen details
- Set up environments with debug options
- Configure Crestron signal connections
- Add web API integrations
- Define dataset access and authentication
- Save your updates properly

Use this structured approach to make sure every AVstudio project is properly set up for success.

Commit message:

Completed AVStudio Docs updates: - Applied all highlighted text replacements across sections - Updated terminology (Crestron Connectors → Control System Connectors) - Removed outdated content under Page Properties - Added Crestron trademark disclaimer to all edited pages

docs/documentation/4-working-with-projects/4-2-setting-up-project-settings/4-2-setting-up-project-settings.md, after:

---
title: Setting Up Project Settings
sidebar_label: Setting Up a Project
sidebar_position: 2
order: 2
tags:
  - avstudio
  - project-settings
  - environment
  - connectors
  - debug-console
---

# Setting Up Project Settings

After creating your project, the next step is to configure the settings that define how it behaves, builds, and connects. This guide walks you through how to open the project settings panel and configure key fields like environment setup, debug mode, signal IDs, connectors, and dataset access.


## 1. Open the Project Dashboard

You can access the dashboard in two ways:

a. In the `My Projects` panel, click the name of the project you want to configure  
b. Or, from the preview card, click the `Edit` button next to the project

![Open project dashboard](./img/open-project-dashboard.png)

Both actions will take you to the `Project Dashboard`.

## 2. Access the Project Settings Panel

a. In the dashboard, click the `Settings` button (three-line icon)  
b. Select `Project Settings` from the dropdown menu

![Access project settings menu](./img/open-project-settings.png)

This will open the full `Project Settings` panel.

## 3. Configure General Project Information

Update the following fields:

a. `Project Name`: Set a clear and recognizable name. *Example: `Smart Home UI - Beta`*

b. `Project Theme`: Select a theme from the dropdown. *Example: `Dark Huddle`, `Light Minimal`*

c. `Splash screen Logo image ID`: Paste the image ID from your media library. *Example: `logo_78e1`*

d. `Splash screen Text`: Enter a welcome message. *Example: `Welcome to LuxeControl`*

![Edit general project information](./img/project-general-info.png)

:::tip Note
These fields affect branding and the visual appearance during loading screens.
:::

## 4. Set Up Environments

To define multiple deployment environments (such as development, onsite, iPad view):

a. Click the `+` button to create a new environment tab  
b. In the `Environment name` field, enter a label (e.g., `QA`, `Tablet`, or `Internal`)  
c. Toggle `Enable debug console` if needed for testing  
d. Set the `Build Archive Name` — this defines the filename for exported builds.  *Example: `myApp_test_build`*

![Environment settings](./img/environment-settings.png)

:::tip Note
Use environments to separate internal testing setups from production builds.
:::

## 5. Configure Control System Connectors

If your project communicates with Crestron-compatible or similar control systems, you can assign signal IDs that allow AVstudio to process external commands, navigate between pages, and trigger data updates.

a. `Analog flip page signal` – Accepts a numeric input to switch between different pages.  
   *Use this when your control processor sends analog values representing specific page indexes.*  
   *Example: `analog_01`*

b. `Serial flip page signal` – Accepts string values that represent page names or routes.  
   *Use this when your control system uses serial strings (e.g. `"home"`, `"settings"`) to flip pages.*  
   *Example: `serial_page_name`*

c. `Notification signal` – Displays real-time alerts or status messages in the UI.  
   *Bind this to a serial signal that provides messages from your control system, like `"Network Error"` or `"System Ready"`.*  
   *Example: `serial_alert_msg`*

d. `Refresh All DataSources` – Triggers a manual refresh for all bound data sources.  
   *Connect this to a digital signal that forces a full data reload when toggled ON (value 1).*  
   *Example: `digital_refresh`*

e. `Connected status indicator` – Indicates whether the system is connected or offline.  
   *Use this digital signal to show an online/offline status icon in your interface.*  
   *Example: `digital_online_state`*

![Crestron connectors](./img/crestron-connectors.png)

## 6. Add Web Connectors

If your project needs to communicate with a web API or external data service, you can add a web connector. These are typically used for retrieving dynamic content, triggering API requests, or syncing with third-party systems like building management tools, calendar services, or dashboards.

a. Scroll to the `WEB connectors` section in the Project Settings panel.

b. Click the `Add Web Connector` button to begin creating a new integration.

c. In the connector setup modal (not shown here), enter configuration details such as endpoint URL, request type (e.g. GET or POST), and headers or payloads if required.  
   *Example: You could connect to `https://api.weather.com/current?location=XYZ` to pull in real-time temperature data for a dashboard display.*

![Web connectors](./img/web-connectors.png)

:::tip Note
Web connectors allow your AVstudio project to talk to third-party platforms—ideal for syncing data, controlling devices, or showing external content in real time.
:::

---

## 7. Define Dataset Options

Dataset options allow AVstudio to connect securely to external datasets that power dynamic content in your interface. These settings are especially useful when using APIs that require authentication or custom headers.

a. In the `Dataset base URL` field, enter the base address of the API or database.  
   *Example: `https://api.smartbuilding.io/v1` — this might be the root of a facilities management system or custom backend.*

b. In the `Authorization header key`, enter the name of the HTTP header used for access tokens or API keys.  
   *Example: `Authorization` or `x-api-key` depending on the service.*

c. In the `Authorization header value`, paste the actual token or key value used to authenticate requests.  
   *Example: `Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5...` — this would be issued by your backend or identity provider.*

![Dataset options](./img/dataset-options.png)

---

## 8. Save Your Changes

Always remember to save your work after editing project settings. If you leave the page without saving, your configuration changes will be lost.

a. Click the `Save Project Settings` button in the top-right corner of the settings panel.

![Save project settings](./img/save-project-settings.png)

This saves all updates made across general settings, environments, connectors, and dataset fields.

---

## Summary

This guide covered how to:

- Open the project dashboard
- Access the settings panel
- Edit branding and splash screen details
- Set up environments with debug options
- Configure control system signal connections
- Add web API integrations
- Define dataset access and authentication
- Save your updates properly

Use this structured approach to make sure every AVstudio project is properly set up for success.

<sub>AVstudio is an independent software platform. <em>Crestron®</em> is a registered trademark of Crestron Electronics, Inc. AVstudio is not affiliated with or endorsed by Crestron Electronics.</sub>
