docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-4-page-properties/4-4-5-elements/4-4-5-elements.md, before:

---
title: Elements
sidebar_label: Elements
sidebar_position: 5
order: 5
tags:
  - avstudio
  - container-options
  - elements
  - widgets
  - ui-components
---

# Adding Elements to a Container

Each container in AVstudio can hold one or more elements. These elements define the actual content or controls inside your layout—such as buttons, sliders, inputs, or embedded widgets.

You can add both standard elements and advanced widgets depending on the type of interface you're building. Elements help create interactive UIs, while widgets provide higher-level functionality for media, automation, and custom display.

---

## How to Add an Element

![Adding a new element in AVstudio](./img/add-element-panel.png)  
*The New Element panel allows you to name and select the type of element you want to add.*

To insert a new element into a container:

1. Click the `Add Element` button under the container  
2. The **New Element** panel will open  
3. Enter a clear and descriptive **name** for your element  
   *Example: `SubmitButton`, `UserNameInput`, `MainSlider`*  
4. Choose the **element type** from the list  
5. Click `Add Element` to save

The element will now appear under the container’s `Elements` section where you can modify its properties.

---

## Available Element Types

### Standard Elements

These are the most common building blocks used in UI layouts.

| Element Type     | Description                                                                 |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Button`         | Triggers actions like navigation or logic. Use for submitting forms or toggling views. |
| `Checkbox`       | Allows on/off toggling for binary options. Ideal for preferences or filters. |
| `Dpad`           | A directional control interface. Useful for navigation in kiosk or media layouts. |
| `Image`          | Displays a static image from your media library or a dynamic source.        |
| `Keypad`         | A numeric keypad for input interfaces like PIN pads or access panels.       |
| `Slider`         | Allows users to adjust values visually, such as brightness or volume.       |
| `Spacer`         | Creates intentional space between other elements for layout control.        |
| `SubPage`        | Inserts a reference to another page within the container. Use for popups or nested views. |
| `Switch`         | Similar to a toggle. Used to activate or deactivate settings or features.   |
| `Text`           | Displays static or dynamic text content. Ideal for labels, instructions, or status. |
| `Text Input`     | Allows user input, such as names, emails, or search terms.                  |
| `Video`          | Embeds a video player to show media content inside the container.           |

---

### Widgets

Widgets are pre-built, functional components that offer more specialized or advanced features. Some widgets are **premium** and require a specific license to use.

| Widget Name                         | Description                                                                 |
|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Autonomic Media Player – Premium`  | Advanced media control for Autonomic systems. Ideal for high-end AV control panels. |
| `Circle Slider`                     | A rotary-style slider. Useful for volume dials or lighting controls.       |
| `Clock`                             | Displays current time. Use in dashboards or control room interfaces.       |
| `DateTime`                          | Combines date and time selectors or display. Useful for scheduling screens.|
| `HTML Block`                        | Allows you to embed raw HTML content. Great for custom scripts or third-party widgets. |
| `Media Player`                      | A general-purpose player for embedded media content.                       |
| `Shades Control – Premium`          | Provides control UI for smart shades or blinds. Often used in home or conference room automation. |
| `Toggle Switch`                     | A stylized toggle for on/off functionality. Suitable for settings or device control. |

**When to Use Widgets:**

- Use `Clock`, `DateTime`, or `Media Player` in dashboards, automation panels, or meeting room UIs.
- Use `HTML Block` to embed weather widgets, custom branding, or third-party integrations.
- Use premium widgets like `Autonomic Media Player` or `Shades Control` when integrating specialized AV or building automation systems.

---

## Summary

Adding elements is a straightforward process:

- Click `Add Element`
- Enter a name
- Choose a type (standard or widget)
- Save and configure it in the panel

Elements bring interactivity and structure to your containers, while widgets extend your design with powerful, reusable components.

:::tip
Name each element based on its purpose (e.g., `VolumeSlider`, `UserEmailInput`) to make your layout easier to manage and scale—especially when working with dynamic parameters or logic.
:::

Commit message:

docs: deprecate Checkbox element and Toggle Switch widget; keep Switch active. Add stub for legacy Checkbox path; update Elements and Adding Elements listings.

docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-4-page-properties/4-4-5-elements/4-4-5-elements.md, after:

---
title: Elements
sidebar_label: Elements
sidebar_position: 5
order: 5
tags:
  - avstudio
  - container-options
  - elements
  - widgets
  - ui-components
---

# Adding Elements to a Container

Each container in AVstudio can hold one or more elements. These elements define the actual content or controls inside your layout—such as buttons, sliders, inputs, or embedded widgets.

You can add both standard elements and advanced widgets depending on the type of interface you're building. Elements help create interactive UIs, while widgets provide higher-level functionality for media, automation, and custom display.

---

## How to Add an Element

![Adding a new element in AVstudio](./img/add-element-panel.png)  
*The New Element panel allows you to name and select the type of element you want to add.*

To insert a new element into a container:

1. Click the `Add Element` button under the container  
2. The **New Element** panel will open  
3. Enter a clear and descriptive **name** for your element  
   *Example: `SubmitButton`, `UserNameInput`, `MainSlider`*  
4. Choose the **element type** from the list  
5. Click `Add Element` to save

The element will now appear under the container’s `Elements` section where you can modify its properties.

---

## Available Element Types

### Standard Elements

These are the most common building blocks used in UI layouts.

| Element Type     | Description                                                                 |
|------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Button`         | Triggers actions like navigation or logic. Use for submitting forms or toggling views. |
| `Checkbox` (Deprecated) | This element is deprecated and will be removed in a future release. |
| `Dpad`           | A directional control interface. Useful for navigation in kiosk or media layouts. |
| `Image`          | Displays a static image from your media library or a dynamic source.        |
| `Keypad`         | A numeric keypad for input interfaces like PIN pads or access panels.       |
| `Slider`         | Allows users to adjust values visually, such as brightness or volume.       |
| `Spacer`         | Creates intentional space between other elements for layout control.        |
| `SubPage`        | Inserts a reference to another page within the container. Use for popups or nested views. |
| `Switch`         | Similar to a toggle. Used to activate or deactivate settings or features.   |
| `Text`           | Displays static or dynamic text content. Ideal for labels, instructions, or status. |
| `Text Input`     | Allows user input, such as names, emails, or search terms.                  |
| `Video`          | Embeds a video player to show media content inside the container.           |

---

### Widgets

Widgets are pre-built, functional components that offer more specialized or advanced features. Some widgets are **premium** and require a specific license to use.

| Widget Name                         | Description                                                                 |
|-------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `Autonomic Media Player – Premium`  | Advanced media control for Autonomic systems. Ideal for high-end AV control panels. |
| `Circle Slider`                     | A rotary-style slider. Useful for volume dials or lighting controls.       |
| `Clock`                             | Displays current time. Use in dashboards or control room interfaces.       |
| `DateTime`                          | Combines date and time selectors or display. Useful for scheduling screens.|
| `HTML Block`                        | Allows you to embed raw HTML content. Great for custom scripts or third-party widgets. |
| `Media Player`                      | A general-purpose player for embedded media content.                       |
| `Shades Control – Premium`          | Provides control UI for smart shades or blinds. Often used in home or conference room automation. |
| `Toggle Switch` (Deprecated)        | Deprecated stylized toggle; avoid in new layouts. |

**When to Use Widgets:**

- Use `Clock`, `DateTime`, or `Media Player` in dashboards, automation panels, or meeting room UIs.
- Use `HTML Block` to embed weather widgets, custom branding, or third-party integrations.
- Use premium widgets like `Autonomic Media Player` or `Shades Control` when integrating specialized AV or building automation systems.

---

## Summary

Adding elements is a straightforward process:

- Click `Add Element`
- Enter a name
- Choose a type (standard or widget)
- Save and configure it in the panel

Elements bring interactivity and structure to your containers, while widgets extend your design with powerful, reusable components.

:::tip
Name each element based on its purpose (e.g., `VolumeSlider`, `UserEmailInput`) to make your layout easier to manage and scale—especially when working with dynamic parameters or logic.
:::
