docs/avstudio-editor/3-user-interface/3-7-global-containers/3-7-global-containers.md, before:

---
title: Global Containers Overview
sidebar_label: Global Containers
sidebar_position: 7
order: 7
tags:
  - avstudio
  - getting-started
  - global-containers
  - layout
  - visibility
  - reusable-components
  - shared-ui
---

# Global Containers Overview

Learn how to create and manage Global Containers to reuse shared UI (like headers, footers, and overlays) across multiple pages.

The Global Containers section in AVstudio lets you create persistent, reusable interface blocks that appear across multiple pages. Whether it’s a navigation bar, footer, or overlay, global containers help ensure design consistency while giving you control over placement and visibility on a per-page basis.


## Navigating to the Global Containers Section

Global containers are reusable interface blocks that can appear across multiple pages. They’re typically used for elements like headers, footers, or overlays that need to remain consistent throughout the project.

![Global Containers Interface](./img/global-containers-ui-overview.png)

**① Global Containers Tab** – Located at the top of the project workspace, this tab opens the Global Containers section where all existing containers are listed.

**② Create Global Container** – Clicking this button opens the `Add New Global Container` dialog. From here, you can configure the container before adding it:

- **Name** – Enter a name to identify the container.
- **Default Position** – Choose where the container should be placed (e.g., `Top`, `Bottom`, etc.) using the dropdown.
- **Default Visibility** – Toggle between `Visible` or `Hidden` as the default state for when the container loads.

At the bottom of the dialog, you can select `Add global container` to confirm, or `Cancel` if you decide not to create it.

## Managing Global Container Settings

Once a global container is created, it appears in the list view. Each container has configurable settings that control its display behavior across pages.

![Global Container Settings](./img/global-containers-table.png)

**① Global Containers Header** – Indicates how many global containers are currently added to the project.

**② Name (Editable)** – Click the pencil icon to rename the container directly from the list.

**③ Position** – Dropdown menu that lets you set the container’s position on the screen. Options include `Top`, `Right`, `Bottom`, `Left`, and `Hidden`.

**④ Visible on Pages** – Becomes active when **Visible by default** is turned off. Use this to define which pages should display the container.

**⑤ Hidden on Pages** – Becomes active when **Visible by default** is on. Use this to define which pages should *not* display the container.

**⑥ Visible by Default** – Toggle switch that determines whether the container is visible across all pages by default.

**⑦ Actions Menu (Three Dots)** – Opens the option to `Remove` the global container. This action is irreversible.

## Visibility Toggle Behavior

The visibility settings dynamically affect which configuration fields are editable. Depending on whether **Visible by default** is toggled on or off, the interface adjusts accordingly.

![Global Container Visibility Toggle](./img/global-containers-toggle-logic.png)

**① Visible by Default (Off)** – When this toggle is turned off:
- The global container is hidden on all pages by default
- The **Visible on Pages** field becomes active, allowing you to choose where the container should appear
- The **Hidden on Pages** field is disabled, since everything is hidden unless specified

**② Visible on Pages** – Lets you select individual pages (e.g., `main`, `getting-started`) where the container should be shown when **Visible by default** is off.

**③ Hidden on Pages (Disabled)** – This field is inactive when **Visible by default** is off. It only becomes usable when the toggle is on.

## Summary

Global Containers provide a reliable way to reuse shared UI across your application. By configuring position, default visibility, and page-level exceptions, you can keep your interface consistent while tailoring where elements appear.

Commit message:

Add frontmatter descriptions under sidebar_label for 3-1..3-8, 3-10, 3-11 (consistent 'Learn how to…' summaries)

docs/avstudio-editor/3-user-interface/3-7-global-containers/3-7-global-containers.md, after:

---
title: Global Containers Overview
sidebar_label: Global Containers
description: "Learn how to create and manage Global Containers to reuse shared UI (like headers, footers, and overlays) across multiple pages."
sidebar_position: 7
order: 7
tags:
  - avstudio
  - getting-started
  - global-containers
  - layout
  - visibility
  - reusable-components
  - shared-ui
---

# Global Containers Overview

Learn how to create and manage Global Containers to reuse shared UI (like headers, footers, and overlays) across multiple pages.

The Global Containers section in AVstudio lets you create persistent, reusable interface blocks that appear across multiple pages. Whether it’s a navigation bar, footer, or overlay, global containers help ensure design consistency while giving you control over placement and visibility on a per-page basis.


## Navigating to the Global Containers Section

Global containers are reusable interface blocks that can appear across multiple pages. They’re typically used for elements like headers, footers, or overlays that need to remain consistent throughout the project.

![Global Containers Interface](./img/global-containers-ui-overview.png)

**① Global Containers Tab** – Located at the top of the project workspace, this tab opens the Global Containers section where all existing containers are listed.

**② Create Global Container** – Clicking this button opens the `Add New Global Container` dialog. From here, you can configure the container before adding it:

- **Name** – Enter a name to identify the container.
- **Default Position** – Choose where the container should be placed (e.g., `Top`, `Bottom`, etc.) using the dropdown.
- **Default Visibility** – Toggle between `Visible` or `Hidden` as the default state for when the container loads.

At the bottom of the dialog, you can select `Add global container` to confirm, or `Cancel` if you decide not to create it.

## Managing Global Container Settings

Once a global container is created, it appears in the list view. Each container has configurable settings that control its display behavior across pages.

![Global Container Settings](./img/global-containers-table.png)

**① Global Containers Header** – Indicates how many global containers are currently added to the project.

**② Name (Editable)** – Click the pencil icon to rename the container directly from the list.

**③ Position** – Dropdown menu that lets you set the container’s position on the screen. Options include `Top`, `Right`, `Bottom`, `Left`, and `Hidden`.

**④ Visible on Pages** – Becomes active when **Visible by default** is turned off. Use this to define which pages should display the container.

**⑤ Hidden on Pages** – Becomes active when **Visible by default** is on. Use this to define which pages should *not* display the container.

**⑥ Visible by Default** – Toggle switch that determines whether the container is visible across all pages by default.

**⑦ Actions Menu (Three Dots)** – Opens the option to `Remove` the global container. This action is irreversible.

## Visibility Toggle Behavior

The visibility settings dynamically affect which configuration fields are editable. Depending on whether **Visible by default** is toggled on or off, the interface adjusts accordingly.

![Global Container Visibility Toggle](./img/global-containers-toggle-logic.png)

**① Visible by Default (Off)** – When this toggle is turned off:
- The global container is hidden on all pages by default
- The **Visible on Pages** field becomes active, allowing you to choose where the container should appear
- The **Hidden on Pages** field is disabled, since everything is hidden unless specified

**② Visible on Pages** – Lets you select individual pages (e.g., `main`, `getting-started`) where the container should be shown when **Visible by default** is off.

**③ Hidden on Pages (Disabled)** – This field is inactive when **Visible by default** is off. It only becomes usable when the toggle is on.

## Summary

Global Containers provide a reliable way to reuse shared UI across your application. By configuring position, default visibility, and page-level exceptions, you can keep your interface consistent while tailoring where elements appear.
