docs/documentation/documentation.mdx, before:

---
title: Documentation
description: Complete documentation for AV Studio
sidebar_position: 0
tags:
  - documentation
  - getting-started
  - user-guide
  - documentation
  - avstudio
  - user-interface
---


# AVstudio Documentation

## What is AVstudio?

AVgator Studio (AVstudio) is a comprehensive HTML5 GUI editor that combines powerful WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) capabilities with flexibility and ease of use. It's available in two formats:

- **Online SAAS**: Access through any web browser
- **Compiled GUI Environment** supporting:
  - Crestron One (iOS)
  - Android App
  - Progressive Web App (PWA)
  - Web browsers

## Platform Support

### Current Focus
- **Primary**: Full Crestron systems support
- **Comprehensive**: Built-in tools and features specifically designed for Crestron integration

### Future Development
Our development team is actively expanding support for additional control systems, including:
- Extron
- QSC
- Home Assistant
- Node-RED
- And more

## Key Features

### Rich Component Library
- Extensive collection of pre-built themes
- Ready-to-use elements and widgets
- Built-in smart console for resource management
- Quick-access application templates

### Development Tools
- **Live Debugging**: Test interfaces with real processors in real-time
- **Smart Console**: Efficiently manage and organize resources
- **Built-in Testing**: Identify and resolve issues instantly

### Responsive Design
All interfaces automatically adapt to different devices:
- Desktop computers
- Tablets
- Smartphones
- Custom screen sizes

### Flexible Development Options

#### No-Code Solutions
- Drag-and-drop interface building
- Visual action scenario creation
- Pre-built component configuration
- Interactive workflow design

#### Pro-Code Features
- Custom CSS implementation
- JavaScript integration
- Advanced customization options
- Extended functionality development

## Cross-Platform Integration

AVstudio offers seamless integration capabilities:
- Work with existing control system infrastructure
- Maintain consistent user experiences across platforms
- Unified development environment for all projects
- Efficient workflow across different systems

### Benefits
- **Time Efficiency**: Reuse components across different projects
- **Consistency**: Maintain uniform design standards
- **Flexibility**: Adapt to various control systems
- **Future-Proof**: Regular updates and expanding compatibility

## Summary

AVstudio combines powerful GUI development tools with user-friendly interfaces, making it suitable for both beginners and experienced developers. Its comprehensive feature set, expanding platform support, and flexible development options make it a versatile choice for creating modern, responsive user interfaces in the automation and control industry.

Commit message:

Completed AVStudio Docs updates: - Applied all highlighted text replacements across sections - Updated terminology (Crestron Connectors → Control System Connectors) - Removed outdated content under Page Properties - Added Crestron trademark disclaimer to all edited pages

docs/documentation/documentation.mdx, after:

---
title: Documentation
description: Complete documentation for AV Studio
sidebar_position: 0
tags:
  - documentation
  - getting-started
  - user-guide
  - documentation
  - avstudio
  - user-interface
---


# AVstudio Documentation

## What is AVstudio?

AVgator Studio (AVstudio) is a comprehensive HTML5 GUI editor that combines powerful WYSIWYG (What You See Is What You Get) capabilities with flexibility and ease of use. It's available in two formats:

- **Online SAAS**: Access through any web browser
- **Compiled GUI Environment** supporting:
  - iOS
  - Android App
  - Progressive Web App (PWA)
  - Web browsers

## Platform Support

### Current Focus
- **Primary**: Full compatibility with industry-leading control systems
- **Comprehensive**: Built-in tools and features designed to simplify integration with control platforms

### Future Development
Our development team is actively expanding support for additional control systems, including:
- Extron
- QSC
- Home Assistant
- Node-RED
- And more

## Key Features

### Rich Component Library
- Extensive collection of pre-built themes
- Ready-to-use elements and widgets
- Built-in smart console for resource management
- Quick-access application templates

### Development Tools
- **Live Debugging**: Test interfaces with real processors in real-time
- **Smart Console**: Efficiently manage and organize resources
- **Built-in Testing**: Identify and resolve issues instantly

### Responsive Design
All interfaces automatically adapt to different devices:
- Desktop computers
- Tablets
- Smartphones
- Custom screen sizes

### Flexible Development Options

#### No-Code Solutions
- Drag-and-drop interface building
- Visual action scenario creation
- Pre-built component configuration
- Interactive workflow design

#### Pro-Code Features
- Custom CSS implementation
- JavaScript integration
- Advanced customization options
- Extended functionality development

## Cross-Platform Integration

AVstudio offers seamless integration capabilities:
- Work with existing control system infrastructure
- Maintain consistent user experiences across platforms
- Unified development environment for all projects
- Efficient workflow across different systems

### Benefits
- **Time Efficiency**: Reuse components across different projects
- **Consistency**: Maintain uniform design standards
- **Flexibility**: Adapt to various control systems
- **Future-Proof**: Regular updates and expanding compatibility

## Summary

AVstudio combines powerful GUI development tools with user-friendly interfaces, making it suitable for both beginners and experienced developers. Its comprehensive feature set, expanding platform support, and flexible development options make it a versatile choice for creating modern, responsive user interfaces in the automation and control industry.

<sub>AVstudio is an independent software platform. <em>Crestron®</em> is a registered trademark of Crestron Electronics, Inc. AVstudio is not affiliated with or endorsed by Crestron Electronics.</sub>
