docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-4-page-properties/4-4-10-project-media-library/4-4-10-project-media-library.md, before:

---
title: Project Media Library
sidebar_label: Project Media Library
sidebar_position: 10
order: 10
tags:
  - avstudio
  - media-library
  - project-assets
  - images
---

# Project Media Library

The `Project Media Library` is where you can manage all media assets used in your AVstudio project. This includes background images, icons, UI illustrations, logos, and any other visual content that will be referenced across pages or containers.

Uploading your media here makes it accessible throughout the editor and ensures consistent asset use across your layout.

![Managing media assets in the Project Media Library in AVstudio](./img/project-media-library-configuration.png)

## Uploading Media

To upload assets:

- Click the upload area or drag files directly into the field
- Supported file types include:
  - `.png`
  - `.jpg`
  - `.jpeg`
  - `.svg`
  - `.gif`
  - `.webp`
  - `.avif`

Once uploaded, your files will appear in the library and become selectable wherever a media picker is used (e.g., for page backgrounds, widgets, or containers).

---

## Use Cases

Here are a few common scenarios where the media library is helpful:

- **Setting page or project background images**
- **Populating icon-based buttons or navigation**
- **Referencing dynamic content using image IDs**
- **Using consistent logos or branded visuals across screens**

---

## Best Practices

- Use clear, consistent naming for media files to make them easier to reference
- Optimize images before upload to improve performance
- Group similar assets (icons, backgrounds, banners) for easier navigation
- Use modern formats like `.webp` or `.avif` for better compression and quality

---

## Summary

The Project Media Library keeps your assets organized and readily available throughout your AVstudio interface. Upload once, reuse everywhere.

:::tip Note
Be sure to upload all required assets before building out your design, especially if you're using dynamic image selections or theme-driven backgrounds.
:::

Commit message:

4-4 Page Properties: add frontmatter descriptions under sidebar_label and 'Learn how to…' intros across 4-4 and subpages (1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9,10)

docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-4-page-properties/4-4-10-project-media-library/4-4-10-project-media-library.md, after:

---
title: Project Media Library
sidebar_label: Project Media Library
description: Learn how to upload and manage media assets in AVstudio’s Project Media Library for use across pages and containers.
sidebar_position: 10
order: 10
tags:
  - avstudio
  - media-library
  - project-assets
  - images
---

# Project Media Library

Learn how to upload and manage media assets in AVstudio’s Project Media Library for use across pages and containers.

The `Project Media Library` is where you can manage all media assets used in your AVstudio project. This includes background images, icons, UI illustrations, logos, and any other visual content that will be referenced across pages or containers.

Uploading your media here makes it accessible throughout the editor and ensures consistent asset use across your layout.

![Managing media assets in the Project Media Library in AVstudio](./img/project-media-library-configuration.png)

## Uploading Media

To upload assets:

- Click the upload area or drag files directly into the field
- Supported file types include:
  - `.png`
  - `.jpg`
  - `.jpeg`
  - `.svg`
  - `.gif`
  - `.webp`
  - `.avif`

Once uploaded, your files will appear in the library and become selectable wherever a media picker is used (e.g., for page backgrounds, widgets, or containers).

---

## Use Cases

Here are a few common scenarios where the media library is helpful:

- **Setting page or project background images**
- **Populating icon-based buttons or navigation**
- **Referencing dynamic content using image IDs**
- **Using consistent logos or branded visuals across screens**

---

## Best Practices

- Use clear, consistent naming for media files to make them easier to reference
- Optimize images before upload to improve performance
- Group similar assets (icons, backgrounds, banners) for easier navigation
- Use modern formats like `.webp` or `.avif` for better compression and quality

---

## Summary

The Project Media Library keeps your assets organized and readily available throughout your AVstudio interface. Upload once, reuse everywhere.

:::tip Note
Be sure to upload all required assets before building out your design, especially if you're using dynamic image selections or theme-driven backgrounds.
:::
