docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-4-page-properties/4-4-page-properties.md, before:

---
title: Page Properties
sidebar_label: Page Properties
sidebar_position: 4
order: 4
tags:
  - avstudio
  - page-properties
  - layout
  - containers
  - css
  - media-library
---

# Page Properties

This article provides an overview of all the page-level settings available in AVstudio. These settings define how each page behaves, looks, and connects to other parts of your project. You can access all of them from the left-hand panel when a page is open in the editor.

## Overview of Available Settings

When a page is open, the left panel displays a list of page-specific and project-wide tools. These options allow you to control layout, background, containers, actions, styles, and assets.

👉 Here's a breakdown of each section:

### Page Properties

Configure the page's identity and layout behavior.

- Set the `Page Name` and an optional `CSS Class Name`
- Choose layout type (adaptive or responsive)
- Control toolbar visibility and container spacing

### Alignment

Adjust element alignment using grid lines, padding, and snapping controls to keep designs structured and consistent.

### Global Containers

Access reusable containers that can be shared across pages (e.g., headers, footers, side menus).

### Page Containers

Add layout containers directly to the current page. These hold components and widgets and support nesting for more complex structures.

### Page Actions

Set up logic that runs when the page loads or changes—ideal for triggering animations, setting variables, or navigating to other pages.

### Page Background

Customize the visual background of the page using:

- Solid colors
- Gradients
- Image assets

### Project Theme

Manage visual consistency across the entire project by defining color palettes, font styles, and theme behaviors.

### Project CSS

Write or paste custom CSS that applies to the entire project. Use this to override styles or define reusable utility classes.

### Project Media Library

Access all uploaded media files in one place. You can:

- Browse and search for assets
- Upload new files
- Reuse images across multiple screens

---

## Summary

The Page Properties panel in AVstudio gives you complete control over how a page looks, behaves, and integrates with your project. Use it to:

- Define page structure and identity
- Set up backgrounds and layout guides
- Configure global and local containers
- Manage page actions and styles

Once your page settings are configured, you're ready to begin designing and adding interactive elements. Continue with the next article to learn more.

Commit message:

4-4 Page Properties: add frontmatter descriptions under sidebar_label and 'Learn how to…' intros across 4-4 and subpages (1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9,10)

docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-4-page-properties/4-4-page-properties.md, after:

---
title: Page Properties
sidebar_label: Page Properties
description: Learn how to configure page-level properties in AVstudio—layout behavior, containers, actions, backgrounds, theme, CSS, and media.
sidebar_position: 4
order: 4
tags:
  - avstudio
  - page-properties
description: Learn how to configure page-level settings in AVstudio—identity, alignment, containers, actions, backgrounds, theme, CSS, and media.
  - layout
  - containers
  - css
  - media-library
---

# Page Properties

Learn how to configure page-level properties in AVstudio—layout behavior, containers, actions, backgrounds, theme, CSS, and media.

This article provides an overview of all the page-level settings available in AVstudio. These settings define how each page behaves, looks, and connects to other parts of your project. You can access all of them from the left-hand panel when a page is open in the editor.

## Overview of Available Settings
Learn how to configure page-level settings in AVstudio—identity, alignment, containers, actions, backgrounds, theme, CSS, and media.


When a page is open, the left panel displays a list of page-specific and project-wide tools. These options allow you to control layout, background, containers, actions, styles, and assets.

👉 Here's a breakdown of each section:

### Page Properties

Configure the page's identity and layout behavior.

- Set the `Page Name` and an optional `CSS Class Name`
- Choose layout type (adaptive or responsive)
- Control toolbar visibility and container spacing

### Alignment

Adjust element alignment using grid lines, padding, and snapping controls to keep designs structured and consistent.

### Global Containers

Access reusable containers that can be shared across pages (e.g., headers, footers, side menus).

### Page Containers

Add layout containers directly to the current page. These hold components and widgets and support nesting for more complex structures.

### Page Actions

Set up logic that runs when the page loads or changes—ideal for triggering animations, setting variables, or navigating to other pages.

### Page Background

Customize the visual background of the page using:

- Solid colors
- Gradients
- Image assets

### Project Theme

Manage visual consistency across the entire project by defining color palettes, font styles, and theme behaviors.

### Project CSS

Write or paste custom CSS that applies to the entire project. Use this to override styles or define reusable utility classes.

### Project Media Library

Access all uploaded media files in one place. You can:

- Browse and search for assets
- Upload new files
- Reuse images across multiple screens

---

## Summary

The Page Properties panel in AVstudio gives you complete control over how a page looks, behaves, and integrates with your project. Use it to:

- Define page structure and identity
- Set up backgrounds and layout guides
- Configure global and local containers
- Manage page actions and styles

Once your page settings are configured, you're ready to begin designing and adding interactive elements. Continue with the next article to learn more.
