---
title: "3 User interface"
sidebar_label: "User interface"
sidebar_position: 1
order: 1
tags:
    - user-interface
    - documentation
    - avstudio
---

#  3 User interface 

The User Interface of AVgator Studio provides a user-friendly and
intuitive environment for creating dynamic and interactive user
interfaces. This section of the documentation will guide you through the
various components and features of the User Interface.

-   [Dashboard Overview](./3-1-main-dashboard/3-1-main-dashboard.md):

The Dashboard serves as the main hub for your projects and activities in
AVgator Studio. It provides an overview of your recent projects,
notifications, and important updates. You can quickly access your
projects and navigate to different sections of the application from the
Dashboard.


AVgator Studio offers a comprehensive navigation system and menus to
help you navigate through the application's features and
functionalities. The main navigation menu is typically located at the
top or side of the application window and provides access to different
sections such as Projects, Library, Settings, and more. Sub-menus and
dropdown menus are also available to provide further options and
organization.

-   User Properties (Under construction):

The User Properties section is currently under construction and will
provide various user-related settings and customization options. This
section will allow you to manage your account details, preferences, and
other user-specific configurations. Stay tuned for updates on this
feature.

Please refer to the individual pages dedicated to each topic for
detailed instructions and information. Explore the Dashboard Overview,
Navigation and Menus, and User Properties sections to familiarize
yourself with the User Interface of AVgator Studio and make the most of
its functionalities.
