docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-working-with-projects.md, before:

---
title: Working with Projects
sidebar_label: Working with Projects
sidebar_position: 4
order: 4
tags:
  - avstudio
  - projects
  - creating-projects
  - project-settings
  - global-containers
---

# Working with Projects

This section introduces everything you need to know about managing projects in AVstudio. Whether you're creating your first layout, editing an existing setup, or configuring advanced project settings, you'll find helpful guides here.

Projects are the foundation of your work in AVstudio. Each project contains your layout design, theme settings, assets, and components. You can create projects from scratch, clone existing ones, or use community and personal templates as a starting point.

## Table of Contents

Explore the available guides grouped by topic.

### Getting Started with Projects

👉 [How to create a new project](./4-1-creating-projects/4-1-creating-projects.md)  
👉 How to clone an existing project
👉 How to use community and personal templates

<!-- Additional groupings can go below here, like Editing Projects or Advanced Settings -->

## What You’ll Learn in This Section

👉 How to create and manage projects  
👉 How to duplicate and adapt previous work  
👉 How to use templates to speed up your workflow  
👉 How to configure project details and settings  
👉 How to manage global containers and shared elements  
👉 How to stay organized with multiple projects

Each guide includes clear steps, images, and real examples to help you navigate the platform with confidence.

## Next Steps

Start with [how to create a new project](./4-1-creating-projects/4-1-creating-projects.md), or choose the workflow that best fits your needs.

Commit message:

Docs: finalize pending 4.x updates (frontmatter descriptions, 'Learn how to…' intros, summaries) and fix duplicate description in 4-4 Page Properties

docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-working-with-projects.md, after:

---
title: Working with Projects
sidebar_label: Working with Projects
description: Learn how to work with projects in AVstudio—create, clone, use templates, configure settings, and manage shared elements.
sidebar_position: 4
order: 4
tags:
  - avstudio
  - projects
  - creating-projects
  - project-settings
  - global-containers
---

# Working with Projects

Learn how to work with projects in AVstudio—create, clone, use templates, configure settings, and manage shared elements.

This section introduces everything you need to know about managing projects in AVstudio. Whether you're creating your first layout, editing an existing setup, or configuring advanced project settings, you'll find helpful guides here.

Projects are the foundation of your work in AVstudio. Each project contains your layout design, theme settings, assets, and components. You can create projects from scratch, clone existing ones, or use community and personal templates as a starting point.

## Table of Contents

Explore the available guides grouped by topic.

### Getting Started with Projects

👉 [How to create a new project](./4-1-creating-projects/4-1-creating-projects.md)  
👉 How to clone an existing project
👉 How to use community and personal templates

<!-- Additional groupings can go below here, like Editing Projects or Advanced Settings -->

## What You’ll Learn in This Section

👉 How to create and manage projects  
👉 How to duplicate and adapt previous work  
👉 How to use templates to speed up your workflow  
👉 How to configure project details and settings  
👉 How to manage global containers and shared elements  
👉 How to stay organized with multiple projects

Each guide includes clear steps, images, and real examples to help you navigate the platform with confidence.

## Next Steps

Start with [how to create a new project](./4-1-creating-projects/4-1-creating-projects.md), or choose the workflow that best fits your needs.
