docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-4-page-properties/4-4-7-page-background/4-4-7-page-background.md, before:

---
title: Page Background
sidebar_label: Page Background
sidebar_position: 7
order: 7
tags:
  - avstudio
  - page-background
  - layout
  - styling
---

# Page Background

The `Page Background` section allows you to customize the visual background of the page. You can use a solid color or set a background image from either your media library or an external URL. Additional options let you control blur, opacity, and image positioning.

![Configuring the page background in AVstudio](./img/page-background-configuration.png)

## Background Color

By default, the background is set using a **background color**.

- You can type in a specific value (e.g., `#FFFFFF`, `rgba(0,0,0,0.5)`)
- Or use the color picker to visually choose the background color

This is ideal for simple, clean layouts that don’t require background images.

---

## Custom Background Image

Toggling `Custom background image` unlocks additional settings. When enabled, you can select one of two image sources:

### 1. Library

Choose this option to pick an image from your Media Library.

- Click `Pick Image` to open the library and choose an asset
- You can also enable **Dynamic pick from library**, which allows the background to change based on a dynamic value (like a parameter or variable)
- When this toggle is on, you’ll be prompted to enter a `Library Image ID`
  - You can assign this dynamically using variables, parameters, or state entries
  - You also have the option to assign a post-processing function (e.g., resize or crop logic)

This method is useful when displaying project-specific assets or background variations based on app state.

### 2. URL

Alternatively, you can load an external image via a URL.

- Enter the external image URL manually
- Or assign a dynamic value using variables, parameters, or state entries

This method is helpful when referencing external resources or using CDN-hosted images.

---

## Additional Image Styling

Once a background image is selected (via Library or URL), the following visual options become available:

### Background Image Blur

Use the blur slider or input field to soften the image. A value of `0` means no blur. Higher values increase the blur intensity.

### Background Image Opacity

Set the image transparency level from `0` (completely transparent) to `100` (fully opaque). This is especially useful when layering content over an image.

---

## Fill Type

Defines how the image fits into the background container.

- `Cover`: Fills the container while maintaining the image’s aspect ratio (recommended default)
- `Contain`: Resizes the image to fit within the container without cropping
- `Fill`: Stretches the image to fit both width and height (may distort)
- `Custom size`: Lets you define exact `Width` and `Height` values

If you choose `Custom size`, you’ll be able to:

- Enter specific background width and height
- Set units in `%` or `px`
- Assign dynamic values if needed

---

## Position

This setting determines the image’s anchor position within the page.

- Options: `Center` (default), `Top`, `Bottom`, `Left`, `Right`

This is especially useful when working with `Custom size`, as it allows you to align the image with your layout’s focal point.

---

## Summary

The Page Background section provides a flexible way to style your page's canvas. Whether you're using a simple color or a dynamic image from your media library, you have full control over how it’s rendered and displayed.

Use:

- **Color backgrounds** for lightweight UIs
- **Library images** for branded or stored visuals
- **External URLs** for dynamic or external image sources
- **Fill and Position** options to refine presentation across screen sizes

:::tip Note
Try combining background blur with low opacity to create elegant overlays and improve text contrast.
:::

Commit message:

4-4 Page Properties: add frontmatter descriptions under sidebar_label and 'Learn how to…' intros across 4-4 and subpages (1,2,3,4,6,7,8,9,10)

docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-4-page-properties/4-4-7-page-background/4-4-7-page-background.md, after:

---
title: Page Background
sidebar_label: Page Background
description: Learn how to set page backgrounds in AVstudio—colors, library images, external URLs, blur, opacity, fill, and position.
sidebar_position: 7
order: 7
tags:
  - avstudio
  - page-background
  - layout
  - styling
---

# Page Background

Learn how to set page backgrounds in AVstudio—colors, library images, external URLs, blur, opacity, fill, and position.

The `Page Background` section allows you to customize the visual background of the page. You can use a solid color or set a background image from either your media library or an external URL. Additional options let you control blur, opacity, and image positioning.

![Configuring the page background in AVstudio](./img/page-background-configuration.png)

## Background Color

By default, the background is set using a **background color**.

- You can type in a specific value (e.g., `#FFFFFF`, `rgba(0,0,0,0.5)`)
- Or use the color picker to visually choose the background color

This is ideal for simple, clean layouts that don’t require background images.

---

## Custom Background Image

Toggling `Custom background image` unlocks additional settings. When enabled, you can select one of two image sources:

### 1. Library

Choose this option to pick an image from your Media Library.

- Click `Pick Image` to open the library and choose an asset
- You can also enable **Dynamic pick from library**, which allows the background to change based on a dynamic value (like a parameter or variable)
- When this toggle is on, you’ll be prompted to enter a `Library Image ID`
  - You can assign this dynamically using variables, parameters, or state entries
  - You also have the option to assign a post-processing function (e.g., resize or crop logic)

This method is useful when displaying project-specific assets or background variations based on app state.

### 2. URL

Alternatively, you can load an external image via a URL.

- Enter the external image URL manually
- Or assign a dynamic value using variables, parameters, or state entries

This method is helpful when referencing external resources or using CDN-hosted images.

---

## Additional Image Styling

Once a background image is selected (via Library or URL), the following visual options become available:

### Background Image Blur

Use the blur slider or input field to soften the image. A value of `0` means no blur. Higher values increase the blur intensity.

### Background Image Opacity

Set the image transparency level from `0` (completely transparent) to `100` (fully opaque). This is especially useful when layering content over an image.

---

## Fill Type

Defines how the image fits into the background container.

- `Cover`: Fills the container while maintaining the image’s aspect ratio (recommended default)
- `Contain`: Resizes the image to fit within the container without cropping
- `Fill`: Stretches the image to fit both width and height (may distort)
- `Custom size`: Lets you define exact `Width` and `Height` values

If you choose `Custom size`, you’ll be able to:

- Enter specific background width and height
- Set units in `%` or `px`
- Assign dynamic values if needed

---

## Position

This setting determines the image’s anchor position within the page.

- Options: `Center` (default), `Top`, `Bottom`, `Left`, `Right`

This is especially useful when working with `Custom size`, as it allows you to align the image with your layout’s focal point.

---

## Summary

The Page Background section provides a flexible way to style your page's canvas. Whether you're using a simple color or a dynamic image from your media library, you have full control over how it’s rendered and displayed.

Use:

- **Color backgrounds** for lightweight UIs
- **Library images** for branded or stored visuals
- **External URLs** for dynamic or external image sources
- **Fill and Position** options to refine presentation across screen sizes

:::tip Note
Try combining background blur with low opacity to create elegant overlays and improve text contrast.
:::
