docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-5-adding-elements/4-5-adding-elements.md, before:

---
title: "How to Add an Element"
sidebar_label: "Adding Elements"
description: "Learn how to add elements to your AVstudio project using the Page Containers panel, the editor context menu, or drag-and-drop."
sidebar_position: 5
keywords:
  - avstudio
  - ui
  - elements
  - add element
  - page containers
  - editor
  - drag and drop
  - container
  - layout
  - interface
tags:
  - avstudio
  - elements
  - editor
  - guide
  - adding
schema:
  "@context": "https://schema.org"
  "@type": "HowTo"
  "name": "How to Add Elements in AVStudio"
  "description": "Step-by-step guide for adding new elements in AVStudio using different methods: Page Containers, Editor right-click, or drag and drop."
  "step":
    - "Go to Page Containers and open Container settings."
    - "Select Elements, then choose Add Element."
    - "From the Type list, pick the desired element and click Add Element."
    - "Alternatively, right-click on the Editor or drag the element from the toolbar to the layout."
---

# How to Add an Element

🎯 Learn how to add new elements to your AVstudio project using different methods.  
This guide explains each option available for inserting UI elements such as buttons, sliders, switches, and more.

---

## Available Elements

AVStudio currently supports the following UI elements:  

- `Button`  
- `Checkbox`  
- `Dpad`  
- `Image`  
- `Keypad`  
- `Text`  
- `Slider`  
- `Round Slider`  
- `Color Picker`  
- `Switch`  
- `Subpage`  
- `Subpage List`  
- `Video`  
- `Player`  
- `Circle Slider`  

Each element has its own properties panel and configuration options.  
You can view their individual documentation pages for detailed setup and usage.

---

## 👉 From Page Containers

### Steps
1. Go to `Container` under `Page Containers`.  
2. Click the dropdown arrow and select `Elements`.  
3. Choose `Add Element`, then select the desired type.  
4. In the `Type` dropdown, select the element (e.g., `Button`, `Switch`, `Image`).  
5. Click `Add Element` to insert it into the layout.  

![Add Element from Page Containers](img/add-element-from-page-containers.png "Add an element using the Page Containers panel")

---

## 👉 From the Editor (Right-Click)

### Steps
1. Right-click anywhere on the `Editor` workspace.  
2. Select `Add Element`, then choose the desired type.  
3. Click `Add Element` to confirm.  

![Add Element from Editor](img/add-element-from-editor.png "Add an element using the Editor context menu")

---

## 👉 By Dragging from the Toolbar

### Steps
1. On the right-hand side of the `Editor`, locate the **Elements Toolbar**.  
2. The toolbar shows element icons by default. If you prefer to view the element names, click the small arrow to expand the toolbar and display labels (e.g., **Text**, **Button**, **Slider**, **Image**).  
3. Find the element you want to add.  
4. Drag it from the toolbar onto the `Editor` workspace, then release to place it.  

📌 You can use this method on any page or subpage that opens in the `Editor`. It works for both responsive and adaptive pages.  

![Expanded Elements Toolbar](img/expanded-elements-toolbar.png "Expanded toolbar showing element names")

---

## 📌 Key Points

- Use **Page Containers** for structured placement within container layouts.  
- Use the **Editor context menu** for faster additions to any active page.  
- Use **drag-and-drop** for visual positioning and layout refinement.  
- Newly added elements appear immediately in the `Editor` and property panel.

---

## ❓ Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

**Can I add multiple elements at once?**  
No, elements must be added one at a time, but you can duplicate them after placement.

**Where do new elements appear by default?**  
They are added to the current container or active page within the Editor.

**Can I reorder or move elements after adding them?**  
Yes. Drag the element directly within the `Editor` or use the hierarchy panel.

---

## Summary

Add elements in three ways:

- From Page Containers (structured placement inside containers)
- From the editor’s context menu (quick insertion)
- By dragging from the elements toolbar (visual positioning)

Use whichever method best fits your current workflow; all elements appear immediately in the editor and properties panel.

Commit message:

docs: deprecate Checkbox element and Toggle Switch widget; keep Switch active. Add stub for legacy Checkbox path; update Elements and Adding Elements listings.

docs/avstudio-editor/4-working-with-projects/4-5-adding-elements/4-5-adding-elements.md, after:

---
title: "How to Add an Element"
sidebar_label: "Adding Elements"
description: "Learn how to add elements to your AVstudio project using the Page Containers panel, the editor context menu, or drag-and-drop."
sidebar_position: 5
keywords:
  - avstudio
  - ui
  - elements
  - add element
  - page containers
  - editor
  - drag and drop
  - container
  - layout
  - interface
tags:
  - avstudio
  - elements
  - editor
  - guide
  - adding
schema:
  "@context": "https://schema.org"
  "@type": "HowTo"
  "name": "How to Add Elements in AVStudio"
  "description": "Step-by-step guide for adding new elements in AVStudio using different methods: Page Containers, Editor right-click, or drag and drop."
  "step":
    - "Go to Page Containers and open Container settings."
    - "Select Elements, then choose Add Element."
    - "From the Type list, pick the desired element and click Add Element."
    - "Alternatively, right-click on the Editor or drag the element from the toolbar to the layout."
---

# How to Add an Element

🎯 Learn how to add new elements to your AVstudio project using different methods.  
This guide explains each option available for inserting UI elements such as buttons, sliders, switches, and more.

---

## Available Elements

AVStudio currently supports the following UI elements:  

- `Button`  
- `Checkbox` (Deprecated)  
- `Dpad`  
- `Image`  
- `Keypad`  
- `Text`  
- `Slider`  
- `Round Slider`  
- `Color Picker`  
- `Switch`  
- `Subpage`  
- `Subpage List`  
- `Video`  
- `Player`  
- `Circle Slider`  
- `Toggle Switch` (Deprecated)  

Each element has its own properties panel and configuration options.  
Elements marked as “Deprecated” are maintained for compatibility only and may be removed in a future release.
You can view their individual documentation pages for detailed setup and usage.

---

## 👉 From Page Containers

### Steps
1. Go to `Container` under `Page Containers`.  
2. Click the dropdown arrow and select `Elements`.  
3. Choose `Add Element`, then select the desired type.  
4. In the `Type` dropdown, select the element (e.g., `Button`, `Switch`, `Image`).  
5. Click `Add Element` to insert it into the layout.  

![Add Element from Page Containers](img/add-element-from-page-containers.png "Add an element using the Page Containers panel")

---

## 👉 From the Editor (Right-Click)

### Steps
1. Right-click anywhere on the `Editor` workspace.  
2. Select `Add Element`, then choose the desired type.  
3. Click `Add Element` to confirm.  

![Add Element from Editor](img/add-element-from-editor.png "Add an element using the Editor context menu")

---

## 👉 By Dragging from the Toolbar

### Steps
1. On the right-hand side of the `Editor`, locate the **Elements Toolbar**.  
2. The toolbar shows element icons by default. If you prefer to view the element names, click the small arrow to expand the toolbar and display labels (e.g., **Text**, **Button**, **Slider**, **Image**).  
3. Find the element you want to add.  
4. Drag it from the toolbar onto the `Editor` workspace, then release to place it.  

📌 You can use this method on any page or subpage that opens in the `Editor`. It works for both responsive and adaptive pages.  

![Expanded Elements Toolbar](img/expanded-elements-toolbar.png "Expanded toolbar showing element names")

---

## 📌 Key Points

- Use **Page Containers** for structured placement within container layouts.  
- Use the **Editor context menu** for faster additions to any active page.  
- Use **drag-and-drop** for visual positioning and layout refinement.  
- Newly added elements appear immediately in the `Editor` and property panel.

---

## ❓ Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)

**Can I add multiple elements at once?**  
No, elements must be added one at a time, but you can duplicate them after placement.

**Where do new elements appear by default?**  
They are added to the current container or active page within the Editor.

**Can I reorder or move elements after adding them?**  
Yes. Drag the element directly within the `Editor` or use the hierarchy panel.

---

## Summary

Add elements in three ways:

- From Page Containers (structured placement inside containers)
- From the editor’s context menu (quick insertion)
- By dragging from the elements toolbar (visual positioning)

Use whichever method best fits your current workflow; all elements appear immediately in the editor and properties panel.
