docs/showcase/showcase.md, before:

---
title: "Showcase"
sidebar_label: "Showcase"
sidebar_position: 10
tags:
  - demo
  - projects
  - live
  - gui
---

#  Demo Projects and Live GUI demo links 

Welcome to the Demo Projects section of AVgator® Studio, an Software as a Service (SaaS).

All these HTML5 demo projects created in AVgator® Studio, showcasing various features and capabilities with both dynamic and static UI. These projects are crafted by AVgator® and our community professionals, highlighting the innovative and functionalities that demonstrate the versatility of our platform. Experience firsthand how AVgator® Studio can elevate your projects to the next level.


## 01 Demo 1
![Demo 1](./img/Screenshot-DEMO01-Medium.avif)

This demo showcases simple functionality. Experience video, adjustable lighting, shades. Switch rooms and easily. Enjoy the versatility of our features.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 1](https://avgatordemo.netlify.app/)
:::

## 02 Demo 2
![Demo 2](./img/Screenshot-DEMO02-Medium.avif)

The HTML5 Demo Project showcases simple yet effective functionality designed for user convenience Experience seamless video playback adjustable lighting, and customizable shades. Effortlessly switch between rooms and enjoy the versatility of our features. This demo also highlights dynamic lists, allowing you to swipe left and right through video/audio sources, lighting options, presets, climate controls, and shades.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 2](https://avgatordemo2.netlify.app/)
:::

## 03 Demo 3
![Demo 3](./img/Screenshot-DEMO03-Medium.avif)

The HTML5 Demo Project presents straightforward yet impactful features aimed at enhancing user convenience. Enjoy smooth playback, adjustable lighting, and customizable shades with ease. Effortlessly transition between rooms and take advantage of our versatile functionalities. This demo also showcases dynamic lists, enabling you to swipe through various video/audio sources, lighting options, presets, climate controls, and shades. The improved design illustrates how small modifications can lead to significant enhancements.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 3](https://avgatordemo3.netlify.app/)
:::

## 04 Demo 4
![Demo 4](./img/Screenshot-DEMO04-Medium.avif)

The HTML5 Demo Project showcases how easy it is to manipulate data sources create a multi-language interface. With yet impactful features, users can enjoy playback, adjustable lighting, and customizable shades. Transitioning between rooms is seamless, allowing you to take full advantage of versatile functionalities. demo also highlights dynamic lists, enabling to swipe through various/audio sources, lighting options, presets, climate controls, and shades, demonstrating that small modifications can lead to significant enhancements.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 4](https://avgatordemo4.netlify.app/)
:::

## 05 Luxe Control Suite
![Demo 5 Luxe Control Suite](./img/Screenshot-DEMO05-Luxe-Control-Medium.avif)

Introducing the HTML5 Luxe Control Suite DEMO Projects, a standout template for AVgator® Studio that combines elegance functionality. Experience seamless playback, adjustable lighting, and customizable shades, all designed for effortless use. Transition smoothly between rooms while exploring dynamic lists that allow you to swipe through various video/audio sources, lighting options, presets, climate controls, and shades. This demo highlights how small design modifications can create significant enhancements, ensuring an unforgettable user experience.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 5](https://avgatordemo5luxecontrolsuite.netlify.app/)

[Guided tour](https://demo.avgator.com/demo/clydbzoqw0p3rthf7l5r8zr8v)
:::

## 06 Bright Conference Space
![Demo 6 Bright Conference Space](./img/Screenshot-DEMO06-Bright-Conference-Medium.avif)

Bright Conference Space, a cutting-edge HTML5 demo project designed for modern meeting and huddle rooms. This template, available in AVgator® Studio, offers a sleek and contemporary design that enhances any collaborative environment. With features that allow you to select activities such as presentations, video conferences, or audio conferences, you can easily control cameras, presets, and sources to create the perfect meeting experience. Elevate your collaboration with Bright Conference Space, where innovation meets functionality.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 6](https://avgatordemo6brightconferencespace.netlify.app/)
:::

## 07 Chesterfield Residence
![Demo 7 Chesterfield Residence](./img/Screenshot-DEMO07-Chesterfield-Residence-Medium.avif)

Chesterfield Residence Demo Project is a simple yet dynamic showcase of modern design. Its responsive interface adapts to various touch panel sizes, ensuring a smooth user experience across all devices. Enjoy effortless navigation and an engaging layout that highlights the project's unique features. Experience the perfect blend of simplicity and functionality.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 7](https://avgatordemo7chesterfieldresidence.netlify.app/)
:::

## 08 Cinema
![Demo 8 Cinema](./img/Screenshot-DEMO08-Cinema-Medium.avif)

Introducing a simple yet powerful HTML5 interface designed specifically for cinema environments. This intuitive UI allows users to effortlessly select sources, control lighting, and manage climate settings all in one place. With its user-friendly design, you can enhance the cinematic experience while ensuring optimal comfort and functionality. Experience seamless control and elevate your cinema operations with this innovative solution.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 8](https://avgatordemo8cinema.netlify.app/)
:::

## 09 Home by Artem Buslaev
![Demo 09 Home by Artem Buslaev](./img/Screenshot-DEMO09-Home-by-Artem-Buslaev-Medium.avif)

Introducing the Smart Home User Interface by Artem Buslaev, a cutting-edge demo project that redefines home automation. This complex yet elegantly designed interface features a dynamic, multi-language setup that seamlessly adapts to various touch panel sizes, including iPads and iPhones, without the need for additional programming. Enjoy an excellent navigation layout that prioritizes user experience, with meticulous attention to detail. Designed for optimal integration with both Crestron and KNX systems, this interface is the perfect solution for modern smart homes.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

 [Demo 9](https://avgatordemo09home-ab.netlify.app/)
:::

import YouTubeEmbed from '@site/src/components/YouTubeEmbed';

<YouTubeEmbed 
  videoId="JCd3TTGwR8c"
  title="My Custom Title"
  height={500}
  customClass="my-custom-class"
/>



Mirror at
[https://www.avgator.cloud/demo-projects](https://www.avgator.cloud/demo-projects)

Commit message:

Completed AVStudio Docs updates: - Applied all highlighted text replacements across sections - Updated terminology (Crestron Connectors → Control System Connectors) - Removed outdated content under Page Properties - Added Crestron trademark disclaimer to all edited pages

docs/showcase/showcase.md, after:

---
title: "Showcase"
sidebar_label: "Showcase"
sidebar_position: 10
tags:
  - demo
  - projects
  - live
  - gui
---

#  Demo Projects and Live GUI demo links 

Welcome to the Demo Projects section of AVgator® Studio, an Software as a Service (SaaS).

All these HTML5 demo projects created in AVgator® Studio, showcasing various features and capabilities with both dynamic and static UI. These projects are crafted by AVgator® and our community professionals, highlighting the innovative and functionalities that demonstrate the versatility of our platform. Experience firsthand how AVgator® Studio can elevate your projects to the next level.


## 01 Demo 1
![Demo 1](./img/Screenshot-DEMO01-Medium.avif)

This demo showcases simple functionality. Experience video, adjustable lighting, shades. Switch rooms and easily. Enjoy the versatility of our features.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 1](https://avgatordemo.netlify.app/)
:::

## 02 Demo 2
![Demo 2](./img/Screenshot-DEMO02-Medium.avif)

The HTML5 Demo Project showcases simple yet effective functionality designed for user convenience Experience seamless video playback adjustable lighting, and customizable shades. Effortlessly switch between rooms and enjoy the versatility of our features. This demo also highlights dynamic lists, allowing you to swipe left and right through video/audio sources, lighting options, presets, climate controls, and shades.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 2](https://avgatordemo2.netlify.app/)
:::

## 03 Demo 3
![Demo 3](./img/Screenshot-DEMO03-Medium.avif)

The HTML5 Demo Project presents straightforward yet impactful features aimed at enhancing user convenience. Enjoy smooth playback, adjustable lighting, and customizable shades with ease. Effortlessly transition between rooms and take advantage of our versatile functionalities. This demo also showcases dynamic lists, enabling you to swipe through various video/audio sources, lighting options, presets, climate controls, and shades. The improved design illustrates how small modifications can lead to significant enhancements.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 3](https://avgatordemo3.netlify.app/)
:::

## 04 Demo 4
![Demo 4](./img/Screenshot-DEMO04-Medium.avif)

The HTML5 Demo Project showcases how easy it is to manipulate data sources create a multi-language interface. With yet impactful features, users can enjoy playback, adjustable lighting, and customizable shades. Transitioning between rooms is seamless, allowing you to take full advantage of versatile functionalities. demo also highlights dynamic lists, enabling to swipe through various/audio sources, lighting options, presets, climate controls, and shades, demonstrating that small modifications can lead to significant enhancements.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 4](https://avgatordemo4.netlify.app/)
:::

## 05 Luxe Control Suite
![Demo 5 Luxe Control Suite](./img/Screenshot-DEMO05-Luxe-Control-Medium.avif)

Introducing the HTML5 Luxe Control Suite DEMO Projects, a standout template for AVgator® Studio that combines elegance functionality. Experience seamless playback, adjustable lighting, and customizable shades, all designed for effortless use. Transition smoothly between rooms while exploring dynamic lists that allow you to swipe through various video/audio sources, lighting options, presets, climate controls, and shades. This demo highlights how small design modifications can create significant enhancements, ensuring an unforgettable user experience.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 5](https://avgatordemo5luxecontrolsuite.netlify.app/)

[Guided tour](https://demo.avgator.com/demo/clydbzoqw0p3rthf7l5r8zr8v)
:::

## 06 Bright Conference Space
![Demo 6 Bright Conference Space](./img/Screenshot-DEMO06-Bright-Conference-Medium.avif)

Bright Conference Space, a cutting-edge HTML5 demo project designed for modern meeting and huddle rooms. This template, available in AVgator® Studio, offers a sleek and contemporary design that enhances any collaborative environment. With features that allow you to select activities such as presentations, video conferences, or audio conferences, you can easily control cameras, presets, and sources to create the perfect meeting experience. Elevate your collaboration with Bright Conference Space, where innovation meets functionality.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 6](https://avgatordemo6brightconferencespace.netlify.app/)
:::

## 07 Chesterfield Residence
![Demo 7 Chesterfield Residence](./img/Screenshot-DEMO07-Chesterfield-Residence-Medium.avif)

Chesterfield Residence Demo Project is a simple yet dynamic showcase of modern design. Its responsive interface adapts to various touch panel sizes, ensuring a smooth user experience across all devices. Enjoy effortless navigation and an engaging layout that highlights the project's unique features. Experience the perfect blend of simplicity and functionality.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 7](https://avgatordemo7chesterfieldresidence.netlify.app/)
:::

## 08 Cinema
![Demo 8 Cinema](./img/Screenshot-DEMO08-Cinema-Medium.avif)

Introducing a simple yet powerful HTML5 interface designed specifically for cinema environments. This intuitive UI allows users to effortlessly select sources, control lighting, and manage climate settings all in one place. With its user-friendly design, you can enhance the cinematic experience while ensuring optimal comfort and functionality. Experience seamless control and elevate your cinema operations with this innovative solution.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

[Demo 8](https://avgatordemo8cinema.netlify.app/)
:::

## 09 Home by Artem Buslaev
![Demo 09 Home by Artem Buslaev](./img/Screenshot-DEMO09-Home-by-Artem-Buslaev-Medium.avif)

Introducing the Smart Home User Interface by Artem Buslaev, a cutting-edge demo project that redefines home automation. This complex yet elegantly designed interface features a dynamic, multi-language setup that seamlessly adapts to various touch panel sizes, including iPads and iPhones, without the need for additional programming. Enjoy an excellent navigation layout that prioritizes user experience, with meticulous attention to detail. Compatible with Crestron and KNX systems, this interface demonstrates advanced flexibility for diverse home automation platforms.

:::info Live
Follow link for live demo

 [Demo 9](https://avgatordemo09home-ab.netlify.app/)
:::

import YouTubeEmbed from '@site/src/components/YouTubeEmbed';

<YouTubeEmbed 
  videoId="JCd3TTGwR8c"
  title="My Custom Title"
  height={500}
  customClass="my-custom-class"
/>



Mirror at
[https://www.avgator.cloud/demo-projects](https://www.avgator.cloud/demo-projects)


<sub>AVstudio is an independent software platform. <em>Crestron®</em> is a registered trademark of Crestron Electronics, Inc. AVstudio is not affiliated with or endorsed by Crestron Electronics.</sub>
