docs/avstudio-editor/2-getting-started/2-1-system-requirements/2-1-system-requirements.md, before:

---
title: "System Requirements"
sidebar_label: "System Requirements"
sidebar_position: 1
tags:
  - avstudio
  - requirements
  - system
  - hardware
  - software
---

# System Requirements

This article outlines the hardware, software, and network requirements needed to run AVstudio smoothly. Whether you're using the cloud-based SAAS platform or the compiled GUI environment, make sure your setup meets the following system specifications.

## Supported Platforms

AVstudio works across multiple platforms, ensuring flexible deployment and development environments.

### Operating Systems

👉 AVstudio supports installation and usage on the following systems:

- Windows 10 or 11
- macOS 10.15 (Catalina) or newer
- Linux (major distributions)
- Chrome OS

### Web Browsers

👉 For optimal performance and stability, use one of the recommended browsers below.

#### Recommended Browsers

- Google Chrome (latest version)
- Safari (latest version)

#### Also Supported

- Mozilla Firefox
- Microsoft Edge
- Opera

## Hardware Requirements

Make sure your device meets at least the minimum requirements. Higher specs are recommended for advanced interface design and debugging.

### Minimum Requirements

| Component   | Specification             |
|------------|----------------------------|
| Processor  | Dual-core processor        |
| Memory     | 4GB RAM                    |
| Display    | 1024x768 resolution        |
| Internet   | Stable broadband connection |
| Storage    | 1GB available space        |

### Recommended Specifications

| Component   | Specification                 |
|------------|--------------------------------|
| Processor  | Quad-core processor or better  |
| Memory     | 8GB RAM or more                |
| Display    | 1920x1080 resolution or higher |
| Internet   | High-speed broadband connection|
| Storage    | 2GB+ available space           |

## Network Requirements

AVstudio operates over the internet and requires consistent access to core services.

| Requirement       | Description                                      |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Internet Speed    | Minimum 256 Kbps                                 |
| Latency           | Less than 100ms                                  |
| Ports             | 80 and 443 (HTTP/HTTPS)                          |
| Firewall Settings | Outbound access to [avstudio.app](https://avstudio.app) |

## Device Support

AVstudio is optimized for a variety of devices. Full features are available on desktop, while limited features are accessible on mobile devices.

### Desktop/Laptop

- Full functionality supported  
- Ideal for development workflows

### Tablets

- Interface optimized for touch input  
- Great for reviewing or light editing

### Mobile Devices

- Responsive design supported  
- Limited editing capabilities

:::tip Best Experience
For the best development experience, use Google Chrome with a 1920x1080 or higher resolution display.
:::

:::note **Browser Settings**
Make sure your browser:
- Has JavaScript enabled  
- Accepts cookies from `avstudio.app`  
- Has local storage enabled  
- Uses HTTPS  
:::

## Compatibility Check

👉 Visit the [compatibility check page](https://avstudio.app/) to confirm your system meets all the technical requirements for AVstudio.

Commit message:

Restyle System Requirements page: improved intro, formatting, icons, summary, and compatibility check placement

docs/avstudio-editor/2-getting-started/2-1-system-requirements/2-1-system-requirements.md, after:

﻿---
title: "System Requirements"
sidebar_label: "System Requirements"
sidebar_position: 1
tags:
  - avstudio
  - requirements
  - system
  - hardware
  - software
---


# System Requirements


Learn to use AVstudio, explore its features, and get started designing powerful user interfaces.

This article outlines the essential system, hardware, and network requirements for AVstudio, helping you prepare your environment for a seamless experience.



## Supported Platforms

AVstudio works across multiple platforms, ensuring flexible deployment and development environments.

### Operating Systems

AVstudio supports installation and usage on the following systems:

- Windows 10 or 11
- macOS 10.15 (Catalina) or newer
- Linux (major distributions)
- Chrome OS

### Web Browsers

For optimal performance and stability, use one of the recommended browsers below.

👉 **Recommended Browsers**

- Google Chrome (latest version)
- Safari (latest version)

👉 **Also Supported**

- Mozilla Firefox
- Microsoft Edge
- Opera

## Hardware Requirements

Make sure your device meets at least the minimum requirements. Higher specs are recommended for advanced interface design and debugging.

### Minimum Requirements

| Component   | Specification             |
|------------|----------------------------|
| Processor  | Dual-core processor        |
| Memory     | 4GB RAM                    |
| Display    | 1024x768 resolution        |
| Internet   | Stable broadband connection |
| Storage    | 1GB available space        |

### Recommended Specifications

| Component   | Specification                 |
|------------|--------------------------------|
| Processor  | Quad-core processor or better  |
| Memory     | 8GB RAM or more                |
| Display    | 1920x1080 resolution or higher |
| Internet   | High-speed broadband connection|
| Storage    | 2GB+ available space           |

## Network Requirements

AVstudio operates over the internet and requires consistent access to core services.

| Requirement       | Description                                      |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| Internet Speed    | Minimum 256 Kbps                                 |
| Latency           | Less than 100ms                                  |
| Ports             | 80 and 443 (HTTP/HTTPS)                          |
| Firewall Settings | Outbound access to [avstudio.app](https://avstudio.app) |

## Device Support

AVstudio is optimized for a variety of devices. **Full features are available on desktop**, while **limited features are accessible on mobile devices**.

👉 **Desktop/Laptop:** Full functionality supported. Ideal for development workflows.

👉 **Tablets:** Interface optimized for touch input. Great for reviewing or light editing.

👉 **Mobile Devices:** Responsive design supported. Limited editing capabilities.

:::tip Best Experience & Browser Settings
👉 For the best development experience, use Google Chrome with a 1920x1080 or higher resolution display.

👉 Also, make sure your browser:
- Has JavaScript enabled
- Accepts cookies from `avstudio.app`
- Has local storage enabled
- Uses HTTPS
:::

## Compatibility Check

👉 Visit the [**compatibility check page**](https://avstudio.app/) to confirm your system meets all the technical requirements for AVstudio.
## Summary

Ensuring your system meets AVstudio’s requirements guarantees a smooth, reliable experience—whether you’re developing on desktop, tablet, or mobile. With the right setup, you’ll unlock the full power of AVstudio’s features and enjoy seamless interface design from day one.
