docs/avstudio-editor/3-user-interface/3-11-media-assets/3-11-media-assets.md, before:

---
title: Media Assets Overview
sidebar_label: Media Assets
sidebar_position: 11
order: 11
tags:
  - avstudio
  - media-assets
  - images
  - fonts
  - audio
  - library
  - management
---

# Media Assets Overview

Learn how to upload, organize, and use images, fonts, and audio files across your AVstudio project.

The Media Assets panel is where you can upload and manage images, fonts, and audio files for use in your AVstudio project.

![Media Assets Overview](./img/3-11-media-assets.png)

**① Media Assets Tab** – Click `MEDIA ASSETS` from the top navigation to access your project's media resources.

**② Media Type Tabs** – Switch between the `Images`, `Fonts`, and `Audio` tabs to view or upload files in each category.

**③ Upload Area** – Drag and drop files or click the upload area to browse your computer for supported file types:

- **Images:** `.png`, `.jpg`, `.jpeg`, `.svg`, `.gif`, `.webp`, `.avif`  
- **Fonts:** `.ttf`, `.otf`  
- **Audio:** `.mp3`

Once uploaded, assets will be available across your pages, subpages, and global components for styling, playback, and design consistency.

## Summary

The Media Assets panel centralizes file management for your project. By organizing images, fonts, and audio in one place, you can keep designs consistent and streamline reuse across pages, subpages, and global components.

Commit message:

Add frontmatter descriptions under sidebar_label for 3-1..3-8, 3-10, 3-11 (consistent 'Learn how to…' summaries)

docs/avstudio-editor/3-user-interface/3-11-media-assets/3-11-media-assets.md, after:

---
title: Media Assets Overview
sidebar_label: Media Assets
description: "Learn how to upload, organize, and use images, fonts, and audio files across your AVstudio project."
sidebar_position: 11
order: 11
tags:
  - avstudio
  - media-assets
  - images
  - fonts
  - audio
  - library
  - management
---

# Media Assets Overview

Learn how to upload, organize, and use images, fonts, and audio files across your AVstudio project.

The Media Assets panel is where you can upload and manage images, fonts, and audio files for use in your AVstudio project.

![Media Assets Overview](./img/3-11-media-assets.png)

**① Media Assets Tab** – Click `MEDIA ASSETS` from the top navigation to access your project's media resources.

**② Media Type Tabs** – Switch between the `Images`, `Fonts`, and `Audio` tabs to view or upload files in each category.

**③ Upload Area** – Drag and drop files or click the upload area to browse your computer for supported file types:

- **Images:** `.png`, `.jpg`, `.jpeg`, `.svg`, `.gif`, `.webp`, `.avif`  
- **Fonts:** `.ttf`, `.otf`  
- **Audio:** `.mp3`

Once uploaded, assets will be available across your pages, subpages, and global components for styling, playback, and design consistency.

## Summary

The Media Assets panel centralizes file management for your project. By organizing images, fonts, and audio in one place, you can keep designs consistent and streamline reuse across pages, subpages, and global components.
