docs/avstudio-editor/2-getting-started/2-4-password-recovery/2-4-password-recovery.md, before:

---
title: "Password Recovery"
sidebar_label: "Password Recovery"
sidebar_position: 4
tags:
  - avstudio
  - getting-started
  - password
  - recovery
  - account-access
  - security
---


# Password Recovery Guide

Learn how to reset your AVstudio password and regain access to your account if you forget your login credentials.

This article provides step-by-step instructions for recovering your AVstudio account password, including tips for troubleshooting common issues and meeting password requirements.

## Recovery Process

👉 Follow these steps to reset your AVstudio password:

1. Go to the [AVstudio Login Page](https://avstudio.app) and click the `Recover` tab
2. Enter your **registered email address**  
4. Click the `Recover` button  

    ![Password Recovery Screen](./img/avstudio-password-recovery.png)
5. Check your inbox for a **password recovery email**  
6. Click the **link in the email** to reset your password  

    ![Password Recovery Screen](./img/avstudio-password-recovery-link.png)

    :::tip **Email Check**
    If you don't see the recovery email:
    - Look in your **spam or junk folder**
    - Make sure you entered the **correct email address**
    - Wait a few minutes before trying again
    :::

## Password Requirements

To protect your account, your new password must meet the following security criteria:

- At least **8 characters**  
- Includes **one uppercase letter**  
- Contains **one number**  
- Has **one special character** (e.g., !, @, #, $)

:::tip **Important**
- The password reset link is valid for **24 hours only**. If it expires, return to the login page and request a new recovery link.
:::

## Additional Help

If you're still experiencing issues with account access:

- Double-check your **email spelling**
- Ensure you're using a **modern, updated browser**
- Clear your browser’s **cache and cookies**
- Reach out to **support** if the problem continues

:::tip **Security Tip**
For your safety, avoid reusing passwords from other platforms or services.
:::

## Summary

Recovering your AVstudio password is a simple process that ensures you can always regain access to your account. By following the steps and security tips in this guide, you can reset your password quickly and keep your account protected. If you encounter any issues, refer to the troubleshooting section or contact support for assistance.

Commit message:

2.x (2-1..2-4): add frontmatter descriptions under sidebar_label to align with ‘Learn how to…’ intros

docs/avstudio-editor/2-getting-started/2-4-password-recovery/2-4-password-recovery.md, after:

---
title: "Password Recovery"
sidebar_label: "Password Recovery"
description: "Learn how to reset your AVstudio password and regain access to your account."
sidebar_position: 4
tags:
  - avstudio
  - getting-started
  - password
  - recovery
  - account-access
  - security
---


# Password Recovery Guide

Learn how to reset your AVstudio password and regain access to your account if you forget your login credentials.

This article provides step-by-step instructions for recovering your AVstudio account password, including tips for troubleshooting common issues and meeting password requirements.

## Recovery Process

👉 Follow these steps to reset your AVstudio password:

1. Go to the [AVstudio Login Page](https://avstudio.app) and click the `Recover` tab
2. Enter your **registered email address**  
4. Click the `Recover` button  

    ![Password Recovery Screen](./img/avstudio-password-recovery.png)
5. Check your inbox for a **password recovery email**  
6. Click the **link in the email** to reset your password  

    ![Password Recovery Screen](./img/avstudio-password-recovery-link.png)

    :::tip **Email Check**
    If you don't see the recovery email:
    - Look in your **spam or junk folder**
    - Make sure you entered the **correct email address**
    - Wait a few minutes before trying again
    :::

## Password Requirements

To protect your account, your new password must meet the following security criteria:

- At least **8 characters**  
- Includes **one uppercase letter**  
- Contains **one number**  
- Has **one special character** (e.g., !, @, #, $)

:::tip **Important**
- The password reset link is valid for **24 hours only**. If it expires, return to the login page and request a new recovery link.
:::

## Additional Help

If you're still experiencing issues with account access:

- Double-check your **email spelling**
- Ensure you're using a **modern, updated browser**
- Clear your browser’s **cache and cookies**
- Reach out to **support** if the problem continues

:::tip **Security Tip**
For your safety, avoid reusing passwords from other platforms or services.
:::

## Summary

Recovering your AVstudio password is a simple process that ensures you can always regain access to your account. By following the steps and security tips in this guide, you can reset your password quickly and keep your account protected. If you encounter any issues, refer to the troubleshooting section or contact support for assistance.
