docs/avstudio-editor/2-getting-started/2-3-accessing-the-application/2-3-accessing-the-application.md, before:

---
title: "Accessing the Application"
sidebar_label: "Accessing the Application"
sidebar_position: 3
tags:
   - avstudio
   - getting-started
   - login
   - authentication
   - access
   - user-guide
   - security
---


# Accessing AVstudio

Learn how to securely log in to AVstudio so you can start building and managing your user interfaces.

This article explains the login process for AVstudio, including available authentication methods, troubleshooting common login issues, and best practices for account security.

## Login Steps

![AVstudio Login Screen](./img/avstudio-login-new.png)

Follow these simple steps to access your AVstudio workspace:

1. Go directly to [AVstudio](https://avstudio.app) in your browser to open the login screen  
2. Choose your login method:  
   - Enter your **registered email address** and **password** (case-sensitive), then click `Login`  
   - Or select **Sign in with Google**  
   - Or select **Sign in with Facebook**  

:::tip **Password Recovery**
   If you forgot your password, click the `Recover` link on the login screen to reset it via email.
   :::

## Common Issues

If you're unable to log in, here are some things to check:

- ✅ Double-check your **email address** for typos  
- ✅ Ensure **Caps Lock** is turned off (passwords are case-sensitive)  
- ✅ Make sure you're using a **supported, up-to-date browser**  
- ✅ Try clearing your browser **cache and cookies** if login fails repeatedly  

## Next Steps After Login

Once logged in, you're ready to begin designing interfaces or managing projects.

👉 You can:  
- Start a **new project**  
- Open and edit **existing projects**  
- Access available **templates**  

:::tip **Security**
AVstudio does not auto-logout after periods of inactivity. For best security practices, **log out manually** when finished using the platform.
:::

## Summary

Accessing AVstudio is straightforward with multiple login options and built-in password recovery. By following the steps in this guide, you can quickly get started with your projects. For ongoing security, remember to log out when finished and follow the troubleshooting tips if you encounter any login issues.

Commit message:

2.x (2-1..2-4): add frontmatter descriptions under sidebar_label to align with ‘Learn how to…’ intros

docs/avstudio-editor/2-getting-started/2-3-accessing-the-application/2-3-accessing-the-application.md, after:

---
title: "Accessing the Application"
sidebar_label: "Accessing the Application"
description: "Learn how to securely log in to AVstudio and troubleshoot common access issues."
sidebar_position: 3
tags:
   - avstudio
   - getting-started
   - login
   - authentication
   - access
   - user-guide
   - security
---


# Accessing AVstudio

Learn how to securely log in to AVstudio so you can start building and managing your user interfaces.

This article explains the login process for AVstudio, including available authentication methods, troubleshooting common login issues, and best practices for account security.

## Login Steps

![AVstudio Login Screen](./img/avstudio-login-new.png)

Follow these simple steps to access your AVstudio workspace:

1. Go directly to [AVstudio](https://avstudio.app) in your browser to open the login screen  
2. Choose your login method:  
   - Enter your **registered email address** and **password** (case-sensitive), then click `Login`  
   - Or select **Sign in with Google**  
   - Or select **Sign in with Facebook**  

:::tip **Password Recovery**
   If you forgot your password, click the `Recover` link on the login screen to reset it via email.
   :::

## Common Issues

If you're unable to log in, here are some things to check:

- ✅ Double-check your **email address** for typos  
- ✅ Ensure **Caps Lock** is turned off (passwords are case-sensitive)  
- ✅ Make sure you're using a **supported, up-to-date browser**  
- ✅ Try clearing your browser **cache and cookies** if login fails repeatedly  

## Next Steps After Login

Once logged in, you're ready to begin designing interfaces or managing projects.

👉 You can:  
- Start a **new project**  
- Open and edit **existing projects**  
- Access available **templates**  

:::tip **Security**
AVstudio does not auto-logout after periods of inactivity. For best security practices, **log out manually** when finished using the platform.
:::

## Summary

Accessing AVstudio is straightforward with multiple login options and built-in password recovery. By following the steps in this guide, you can quickly get started with your projects. For ongoing security, remember to log out when finished and follow the troubleshooting tips if you encounter any login issues.
