docs/documentation/2-getting-started/2-3-accessing-the-application/2-3-accessing-the-application.md, before:

---
title: "Accessing the Application"
sidebar_label: "Accessing the Application"
sidebar_position: 3
tags:
  - login
  - avstudio
  - access
  - authentication
  - user-guide
---

# Accessing AVstudio

Log in to AVstudio to begin building and managing your user interfaces. Whether you're starting a new project or continuing existing work, this guide walks you through the secure login process.
## Login Steps

![AVstudio Login Screen](./img/avstudio-login.png)

Follow these simple steps to access your AVstudio workspace:

1. Go directly to [AVstudio](https://avstudio.app) in your browser to open the login screen
2. Enter your **registered email address** then your **password** (case-sensitive)  

  :::tip **Password Recovery**
  If you forgot your password, click the `Recover` link on the login screen to reset it via email.
  :::

3. Click the `Login` button to access your dashboard



## Common Issues

If you're unable to log in, here are some things to check:

- ✅ Double-check your **email address** for typos  
- ✅ Ensure **Caps Lock** is turned off (passwords are case-sensitive)  
- ✅ Make sure you're using a **supported, up-to-date browser**  
- ✅ Try clearing your browser **cache and cookies** if login fails repeatedly

## Next Steps After Login

Once logged in, you're ready to begin designing interfaces or managing projects.

👉 You can:

- Start a **new project**  
- Open and edit **existing projects**  
- Access available **templates**

:::tip **Security**
AVstudio does not auto-logout after periods of inactivity. For best security practices, **log out manually** when finished using the platform.
:::

Commit message:

— Accessing AVstudio — How to Change Button Active State Color — Elements > Color Picker

docs/documentation/2-getting-started/2-3-accessing-the-application/2-3-accessing-the-application.md, after:

---
title: "Accessing the Application"
sidebar_label: "Accessing the Application"
sidebar_position: 3
tags:
  - login
  - avstudio
  - access
  - authentication
  - user-guide
---

# Accessing AVstudio

Log in to AVstudio to begin building and managing your user interfaces. Whether you're starting a new project or continuing existing work, this guide walks you through the secure login process.

## Login Steps

![AVstudio Login Screen](./img/avstudio-login-new.png)

Follow these simple steps to access your AVstudio workspace:

1. Go directly to [AVstudio](https://avstudio.app) in your browser to open the login screen  
2. Choose your login method:  
   - Enter your **registered email address** and **password** (case-sensitive), then click `Login`  
   - Or select **Sign in with Google**  
   - Or select **Sign in with Facebook**  

:::tip **Password Recovery**
   If you forgot your password, click the `Recover` link on the login screen to reset it via email.
   :::

## Common Issues

If you're unable to log in, here are some things to check:

- ✅ Double-check your **email address** for typos  
- ✅ Ensure **Caps Lock** is turned off (passwords are case-sensitive)  
- ✅ Make sure you're using a **supported, up-to-date browser**  
- ✅ Try clearing your browser **cache and cookies** if login fails repeatedly  

## Next Steps After Login

Once logged in, you're ready to begin designing interfaces or managing projects.

👉 You can:  
- Start a **new project**  
- Open and edit **existing projects**  
- Access available **templates**  

:::tip **Security**
AVstudio does not auto-logout after periods of inactivity. For best security practices, **log out manually** when finished using the platform.
:::
